Hello this is Carol from forewings about dot com.
And welcome to this 13th tutorial in our course on algorithmic trading for complete beginners.
And today we're starting a new section in our course which is going to be about system design and trading
function and sending orders working with prices and so on.
So is a very exciting part and I'm really glad that you've made it this far.
We're going to be delving deeper into the actual Forex market and finally starts to do some basic algorithmic
trading today in today's tutorial we're not going to actually code anything right away.
We're going to focus on understanding how systems are designed and what what basically goes into the
foundation of a programming system or an algorithmic trading system.
And I think it is an important part and it illustrates this tutorial illustrate that if any kind of
algorithmic system development you first have to sit down and understand what you need to do what you
want to create.
And sometimes I even recommend writing these things down on a paper for yourself so that you when you
do start coding you understand exactly what the requirements are and what the algorithm will look like
because clear requirements will always make your programming experience much more pleasurable and seamless
and you won't have to stop and rethink things along the way.
So here I have a Eurodollar chart open in front of me.
And pretty lucky that today is actually the weekend it's Saturday so the markets are not working and
we're going to take advantage of that.
So the prices are still and we're going to just discuss what would happen what what we'd want to do
if we could trade now.
But because the market is still we will not have this problem the price moving around so it kind of
discussing a freeze frame of the market.
This is a bar chart and I'm just going to change it to a line line graph so that it's easier to discuss.
So there's less clutter on the chart.
Right now the price prices 1.3 6 0 8 for your dollar and the big price is one point thirty six or six.
So the surprise I'm sure you're aware of this but I'll just recap to ask prices are always higher than
the bid price.
And basically the ask price is the price and it's the dearer price.
If you want to buy euros for dollars you're going to have to do it at the ask price.
So for every one euro you're going to have to pay one point thirty six 0 8 American dollars and conversely
the price is always less than ask price it's the cheaper of the two.
So basically if you're one if you want to sell a euros for dollars you're going to get this amount of
dollars for every euro.
And the difference between them is called the spread so that in essence the spread is is what at what
disadvantage are ordered that the price you pay for conducting these transactions has an important part.
Because in how algorithms we're going to have to take into account both the ask the big price and understand
where to use which one.
So let's see what oh let's try to understand what kind of system we would possibly want to design in
this particular instance.
We can really from from what we see we can't really tell whether the price is going to go up or is going
to go down.
So for argument's sake let's suggest that the price is going to go up.
So what would we need in a algorithmic trading system that is going to buy euros euros against dollars.
And because the prices are going up we want to buy Euro's cheap and then when the price goes up we want
to sell them.
So first of all we're going to have to understand how far do we think the prices go up by.
And let's for example think say there's going to be 10 pips that the price is going to increase by.
And so basically it will get to the level of 1.3 6 1 6.
And if you notice here I'm using the bid price.
So how this works is influenced by euros for dollars.
We're going to have to use the ask price to buy them and for every for every one euro we are going to
have to pay one point three six or eight dollars.
But then if we want to sell them we're going to be selling at the big price.
So this gap over here is it's already our disadvantages already what we lose just by initiating this
transaction and therefore we have to take into account so if we want to earn 10 pips on the movement
upward movement of your dollar we're going to have to base our calculations on the bid price.
So their initial transaction will occur at the ask price but further on we are going to be dealing with
the bid price and we will be trying to close the transaction at the bid price.
So if we're 110 Pipps is going to be a 1.3 6 1 6.
So that's the first part and you'd think that that is the full extent of the trading system but that
wouldn't be correct because if we also have to take into account a possible downward movement and we
have to protect our position from very high losses.
So let's see what is the maximum that we can afford to lose.
Let's say it's also 10 pips.
So in that case we need to set a stop loss at bid minus 10 pips which is one point 3 5 9 6.
So as you can see a simple trading system that suggests an upward movement has to have certain factors
built into it.
It has to open a position at the ask price then has to have a take profit at the bid price plus 10 pips
and has to have a stop light and stop loss at the bid price minus tenpins.
Now let's look at a different situation where for example here on the A Canadian dollar where we see
more of the chart and we've made some.
We're going to make some and now we can do some analysis and try to understand the future movements
and predict exactly where it's going to where the Chaska is going to move.
So here marked the asking price.
And here you can see the differences a bit higher it's actually a Pip's between the Oskin bit and then
because this is not a euro or Canadian dollar is not a major paper it's across.
So here we can see that there's been a substantial move upward and the price has reached this level
of uncertainty around the one point for six zeros is just across that and previous experience suggests
that sometimes the price can turn around at this level and go backwards.
And so that's what we're going to bet on.
We're going to suggest we're going to speculate that the price is going to go down from here.
And it is going to reach a certain level and we're going to try to capitalize on that.
So here we here I've identified a level where there was another uncertainty at one point four five four
or five or somewhere around there where historically the price has experienced you know turn turning
points or some kind of uncertainty around where it's going to move.
So what we will do is we'll use that level and we'll expect the price to go down to that level but we
will exit the position just before the price gets there and that will put us on the safe side.
So we'll exit the position at the blue line and then that way we can avoid getting into this.
Getting close to this level where the price may turnaround and may not turn around so exiting at the
blue line is being on the safe side.
So if we have a sell position which will open here at the big price then the take profit we're going
to set at one point 4 5 5 5 percent.
As the previous example we need a stop loss and for sell position stop loss goes up to the top.
So here we see a level where the price has previously turned around.
So what we'll do is we will speculate that if the price does go up or against our position there is
a probability that it will actually turn around at the yellow line and then go down like you do here
and reach our take profits so we can actually still make money.
So in that case we would want to set the Stop-Loss above the yellow line so we don't lose this opportunity
of the price actually turning around and that says that means that the stop loss would be set at around
1 point 4 6 4 5.
So in this case you see that take profit is around 50 pips and the stop loss is around 40 pips or basically
to be more correct.
We have to be working with the ask price.
So the take profit is fifty seven pips up losses around 33 pips.
So to sum up this strategy even though it is similar to the previous one which we discussed here these
strategies have different requirements in the first strategy we would say choosing an entry level level
based on the market price and then we were setting the stop loss and take profit take profit and stop
loss based on a fixed number of pips which was 10 pips for both.
In this strategy this approach is different.
We are still using the market price to enter but to exit we're not using a fixed stop loss or take profit
to exit.
We're actually using prices price levels which we see on the market and we're moving away a little bit
from them.
So that means that the algorithmic trading systems will be similar but will be different from each other
in the sense that the parameters of these systems in the first case it will be the levels or the absolute
values distances of the stop loss and take profit from the market price.
But in the second situation the input parameters will actually be fixed prices which the trader chooses
based on his analysis of the current of the currency pair.
So that's in a nutshell what algorithmic trading system design is about.
And of course it gets more complex and more involved and has much more aspects to it.
But these are the basics and I hope you found that helpful and maybe you could look at some of the charts
in your trading platform and try to understand what strategy you would apply as in each situation and
in the next tutorial we're going to look at how we can actually turn this logic into code and how we
can create scripts will which will implement this logic for us.
And I think you will find the next Tauriel very exciting.
So that's it for the Statoil.
And don't forget to click Subscribe if you're watching on YouTube and I hope you'll consider going to
WWE for Expo dot com and subscribing to my new newsletter there as well.
So for now until next time happy coding.